Create rule S6420: Azure functions should reuse client instances rather than creating new ones with each function invocation. (#953)
SonarSource/rspec: rules/S6420/csharp/rule.adoc

To avoid holding more connections than necessary, reuse instances of `HttpClient`, `DocumentClient`, and Azure Storage clients rather than creating new ones with each function invocation.

> In case, consider creating a single, static client in a shared helper class if different functions use the same service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case, consider creating a single, static client in a shared helper class if different functions use the same service.
```

This seems very similar with https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-functions/errors-diagnostics/sdk-rules/azf0002, with the mention that it's more generic than just `HttpClient`.

From the rule suggestion:

> The [recommended best practice](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/architecture/microservices/implement-resilient-applications/use-httpclientfactory-to-implement-resilient-http-requests) is to use an [IHttpClientFactory] with dependency injection or a single static HttpClient instance, depending on the nature of your application.

So it's not only static.

If the [Analyzers](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Azure.Functions.Analyzers/1.0.0) get installed with the SDK, then everyone will have them, so maybe this rule should not overlap?

Reviewer 2: So the idea is to keep this rule but only for `DocumentClient` and the Azure storage clients? (proposing also the dependency injection).

Reviewer 3: I think there is still a case to raise on HttpClient. At the moment we have many duplicates and this can be useful because although you can import external issues to SQ they do not have full functionality (you cannot suppress them or add them to profiles etc) Until we can do that I think it's fine to have duplicates (although I wouldn't go out of our way to do it). If we can provide better support for 3rd party rules in the future then we may end up choosing one of the 2.

Reviewer 2: I agree with @tom-howlett-sonarsource.
Additionally, I'm not a fan of splitting the rule into 2 (have one rule only for HttpClient and another for the rest of the clients).

Reviewer: sounds good

To avoid holding more connections than necessary when using `HttpClient`, `DocumentClient` or Azure Storage clients, consider:

> * Creating a single, static client that every function invocation can use. Provide it in a shared class when different functions need it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Creating a single, static client that every Azure Function invocation can use. Provide it in a shared class when different Azure Functions need it.
```

> * Creating a single, static client that every function invocation can use.
> * Using a static client in a shared helper class if different functions use the same service.

Reviewer: I find these a bit confusing - especially the bit about the "shared helper class" - this is an implementation detail for "Creating a single, static client that every function invocation can use." as well, right? Or the first suggestion is having it static inside a particular Azure Function? 

Maybe it would be easier 

```suggestion
* Creating a single, static client that every function invocation can use. Provide it in a shared class when different functions need it.
```

> * Use the client with dependency injection as a Singleton.

Reviewer 2: Regarding this

> If the class that wraps the external resource is shareable and thread-safe, create a shared singleton instance or a pool of reusable instances of the class.

I think it's in the category of actually creating a separate class to include the client and making it a singleton.

If the class that wraps the external resource is a class that contains Azure Functions I would not really propose to use it as a common class to use by other classes with Azure functions. If that's what you mean.

> * Use the client with dependency injection as a Singleton.

Reviewer: I meant it can either be a singleton or a pool of reusable instances

> * Use the client with dependency injection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Use the client with dependency injection as a Singleton.
```

// If you want to factorize the description uncomment the following line and create the file.
//include::../description.adoc[]

== Noncompliant Code Example

[source,csharp]
----
    public class HttpExample
    {

        [FunctionName("HttpExample")]

>         public async Task<IActionResult> Run([HttpTrigger(AuthorizationLevel.Anonymous, "get", Route = null)] HttpRequest request, ILogger log)

Reviewer: remove `ILogger log)`?

> // If you want to factorize the description uncomment the following line and create the file.
> //include::../description.adoc[]
> 

Reviewer 4: Remove commented noise
```suggestion
```

        {
            HttpClient httpClient = new HttpClient(); // Noncompliant

            var response = await httpClient.GetAsync("https://example.com");
            // rest of the function
        }
    }
----

== Compliant Solution

[source,csharp]
----
    public class HttpExample
    {
        // Create a single, static HttpClient
        private static HttpClient httpClient = new HttpClient();

        [FunctionName("HttpExample")]

>         public static async Task<IActionResult> Run([HttpTrigger(AuthorizationLevel.Anonymous, "get", Route = null)] HttpRequest request)

Reviewer: IMO making the function `static` is mixing the advice, I'd remove it

Reviewer 2: Btw when you create a new Azure Function in VS, it's by default static. (This is FYI, for this example I'll remove it as it does not serve any purpose really).

Reviewer: Ok, then either both should be static or none of them.

        {
            var response = await httpClient.GetAsync("https://example.com");
            // rest of the function
        }
    }
----

== See

> * https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-functions/manage-connections?tabs=csharp#static-clients[Microsoft docs] - Manage connections in Azure Functions: Static Clients

Reviewer: maybe also a link to https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-functions/functions-dotnet-dependency-injection#service-lifetimes ?

> * https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-functions/manage-connections?tabs=csharp#static-clients[Microsoft docs] - Manage connections in Azure Functions: Static Clients
> * https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-functions/functions-dotnet-dependency-injection#service-lifetimes[Microsoft docs] - Azure Functions - Dependency Injection: Service Lifetimes

Reviewer: had a better look at the links: having two links with the same name "Microsoft docs" is a bit confusing. Why not:

```suggestion
* https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-functions/manage-connections?tabs=csharp#static-clients[Manage connections in Azure Functions: Static Clients]
* https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-functions/functions-dotnet-dependency-injection#service-lifetimes[Azure Functions - Dependency Injection: Service Lifetimes]
```

To avoid holding more connections than necessary and to avoid potentially exhausting the number of available sockets when using `HttpClient`, `DocumentClient`, `QueueClient`, `ConnectionMultiplexer` or Azure Storage clients, consider:

* Creating a single, thread-safe static client that every Azure Function invocation can use. Provide it in a shared class when different Azure Functions need it.
* Instantiate the client as a thread-safe Singleton or a pool of reusable instances and use it with dependency injection.

These classes typically manage their own connections to the resource, and thus are intended to be instantiated once and reused throughout the lifetime of an application.

// If you want to factorize the description uncomment the following line and create the file.
//include::../description.adoc[]

== Noncompliant Code Example

[source,csharp]
----
    public class HttpExample
    {

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

To avoid holding more connections than necessary and to avoid potentially exhausting the number of available sockets when using `HttpClient`, `DocumentClient`, `QueueClient`, `ConnectionMultiplexer` or Azure Storage clients, consider:

> * Creating a single, static client that every Azure Function invocation can use. Provide it in a shared class when different Azure Functions need it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Creating a single, thread-safe static client that every Azure Function invocation can use. Provide it in a shared class when different Azure Functions need it.
```

Reviewer 2: The list of clients we mention in this rule manage their own connections, so I guess we don't need to mention thread-safe in this case, or am I missing something?

> These classes typically manage their own connections to the resource, and thus are intended to be instantiated once and reused throughout the lifetime of an application.

Reviewer: From https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/antipatterns/improper-instantiation/#considerations 

> Be careful about setting properties on shared objects, as this can lead to race conditions. For example, setting DefaultRequestHeaders on the HttpClient class before each request can create a race condition. Set such properties once (for example, during startup), and create separate instances if you need to configure different settings.

----
    public class HttpExample
    {
        [FunctionName("HttpExample")]

>         public async Task<IActionResult> Run([HttpTrigger(AuthorizationLevel.Anonymous, "get", Route = null)] HttpRequest request, IHttpClientFactory _clientFactory)

Reviewer 2: Seeing this much later: I think it is from pasting the example or it was created as is by VS.
I changed it, I don't see a reason to keep it with an underscore.
